---
layout: post
title: "Review: Building A Raspberry Pi VPN Part One: How And Why To Build A Server"
date: 2014-12-15 10:09:50
author: Erik Xu
categories: 
- blog
- Reviews
img: post01.jpg # (850x450)
thumb: thumb01.jpg # (70x70)
---

According to Lauren Orsini's article on <a href="http://readwrite.com/2014/04/10/raspberry-pi-vpn-tutorial-server-secure-web-browsing#awesm=~oBvYD8BOiTdCQN" target="_blank">ReadWrite</a>, she writes a step-by-step tutorial for creating a secure Virtual Private Network `(VPN)` server on the inexpensive and portable Raspberry Pi. Lauren does a great job in separating the different sections of her article using bolded typefaces. In addition, links are embedded into her text to point to the softwares used, instructions for setting up the Raspberry Pi and just information on the different type of technologies used. Lastly, I love how she incorporate screenshots into her website post to show readers the significant steps in the tutorial.
<!--more-->
Because of the format of Lauren's article, it's difficult to tell apart the different steps of the process. However, she uses bolded fonts to differentiate the big sections of the tutorial. In addition to separating the huge chunk of text, it also acts as a brief summary of what the reader expects to do in the sequent steps. Besides that, Lauren take advantage of different font sizes to separate section headings from key words. This simple usage of bolded and differently sized fonts allow the reader to quickly scan through the article to search for the steps they're looking for or to find a part or step that is different from the rest.

Links are effectively incorporated into the article. Instead of copying and pasting an entire article or summarizing what was previously written in another article, Lauren links to articles from both in and outside the domain. By linking to other websites, her article is condensed and only show what's relevant. Including links in the article also provides the necessary information that readers should know, rather than just mindlessly following each step of the article. For example, Lauren links to an article explaining the encryption algorithm that is used to create a secure connection between your computer that is connected to a public WIFI and your Raspberry Pi server. These links allow Lauren to write a simple to understand tutorial for inexperienced readers, without requiring a full and complete understanding of the backend technologies used.

Like many other guides and step-by-step tutorials, the number of images used are not overwhelming and only document the important steps. This is valuable because the article writers don't want to detract readers from the text and to solely rely on the images. Sometimes, writing can be hard to accurately describe something and the use of imagery will give readers a better idea of what they are looking for and what they need to do. As a result, images can show which steps are crucial and those that readers need to be careful with.

All in all, Lauren does a great job in showing the world how simple it is to protect and encrypt your private information while browsing on a public WIFI network. Though great in content and formatting, there are some elements that Lauren can consider adding to her article. Although this article was meant to be simple to understand, the writer includes some technical terms that aren't defined. Even though these terminologies are linked to other websites, readers, sometimes don't want to read an entire article or Wikipedia page to understand what it means. As a result, I feel that Lauren could have provided a simple explanation or just a brief description explaining the concepts. Not knowing what the technical jargons mean may not impede readers from continuing, but it definitely doesn't give them the understanding they need to know how the technology works. Blog and article writers may have some linking conventions, but I noticed that external websites are opened in new tabs while linked websites existing within the same domain are opened in the same tab. This makes sense if you want readers to stay on your website, however it may not fit for a article post about a step-by-step tutorial. For example, readers may lose their place or forego the project after being directed to another page. Finally, it's great that Lauren included exactly what readers need to type or copy and paste into their computer, but these set of instructions aren't very distinct from article's text. This makes it very hard to see the commands and can cause readers to skip a step even though it is a different font. Instead, Lauren could have used block quotes such as:
> INSERT COMMAND HERE
This can assist users looking through or skimming through the article the apparent and unmistakable commands they need to follow. Because Lauren reserved bolded words for headings and key words, it wouldn't be wise to put the commands in bold, which is why she changed them to a different font. However, humans are used to recognizing different things by their colors or size, and a different set of font may not be that easy to tell apart.

Overall, Lauren's article is effective and understandable even by those outside the field. She uses important elements in the website to make it comfortable to read and navigate. As good as it is, there are indeed some improvements that she could put into consideration to make it an even better article.